>> Evgenii: Okay,
let's continue our virtualization journey.
So we basically built the following
thing we rendered the.
So we implemented the bottom
virtualization now elements getting
recycled from top.
But the next step is to implement
the top fertilization and
in our case now the item 5 and 6 should
go on top before the item 3 and 4.
So what do we need to do here?
So, we are basically going
the backward direction now we need
to exchange our arrays,
the to house of the array, the item 5 and
item 6 will go on top, while the item
3 and 4 will go on the bottom.
So it's basically the reverse of what
we did for the bottom virtualization.
>> Evgenii: And let's finish this part and
then we'll continue to
change in the position.
Let's go back to the code now.
So we are back to the code and let's
handle the top observer position now.
>> Evgenii: So
when we handle the top observer.
We again needs to fetch the data
>> Evgenii: But
instead of using the nth pointer,
we now need to use the start pointer.
And when we fetch in the backward
direction this means
that we need to reduce
the point value of the start.
Since we're now rendering
the start minus one page,
and we also need to
reduce the end pointer,
so we're fetching our data now.
We don't need to replicate this part, but
we are going to slice our array
again into the two halves.
So we're going to copy over this code and
now we exchange two halves,
but the true recycle part
will become unchanged because
the first half on the array
should be unchanged.
And the second part of the array
should be marked as a to recycle.
Then we are going to
reinitialize our pool.
>> Evgenii: And now the data
that is unchanged, goes on top,
while the data that needs to be
recycled goes on to the bottom.
Okay, now the pool is re-initialized.
We need to call the same method
we've already implemented,
which is the update data.
And we pass our toRecycle array and
the data that we want to.
Well, I want to update.
Wait a second.
Yeah, maybe I made a mistake one second.
So we need to actually do the toRecycle
concut, and change, right?
Thanks a lot.
Good eye.
Okay, so we're calling the update
data function to again,
update the data,
the text data that we are receiving.
And now we need to handle
the case where we move
elements from top, so
we provide the top case.
And here let's implement this branch now.
So, as we discussed in the slides,
we need to now look backwards.
So, we're going to loop
starting from the page size,
because we need to loop from
the end of the page size.
So, we're gonna use props.page size, -1.
Then because we are loop
looping backwards,
we need to make sure that we are looping
until we reach the zero index.
And then we do i++.
>> Evgenii: So
let's now understand how this will work.
We'll see now that we're
creating a new pointers.
So the current pointer will
start at the item 6 which
will be the end of
the first half of the data.
So we are looping from
the half of the array, but
in the backwards direction
while the next pointer
will point us to the next
rendered element.
So if we check the item 6, so
we should render this
right before the item 3.
So it means the item 3 is
the next rendered elements.
That's why we're accessing it for
the next property and
how do we determine
the position of the item 6?
So we're going to use
the y position of item 3,
then we need to subtract the margin, and
we also need to subtract
the height of the item 6, and
then we'll get the final y
position that we're setting.
And then since we're looping backwards,
the current pointer
will become item 5, and
we're doing the same thing for item 6.
We're accessing the y position of item 6,
then subtracting the item
5 height minus the margin,
and we have the generic formula here.
And once the element moved,
we basically do the same thing.
The observer code will be the same,
we just move the observer now to the top.
So this part will not be changed.
So let's get back to the code and
update that.
So we are five lines away.
>> Evgenii: So now we need to access
the current element and the next one.
>> Evgenii: So for
the current is just this pool and
we're gonna use the index to access that.
For the next one,
we're gonna use this pool, i + 1.
>> Evgenii: Okay, and now we need to
calculate the new y position for that.
So the new y will be
equal to the next.
So we need to access the next
wide position- the MARGIN
x 2- the current height.
>> Evgenii: Okay, so
now we have the new y and
we're basically using the same code now.
We are setting the current
element to new y,
and we use the current style transform
to set the current y position.
So the chord doesn't really differ
from the from previous part, okay.
Now the last thing that we need to
handle is our top intersection observer
should not be triggered when the page
is zero, because if the page is zero,
then nothing to be virtualized
from to the to the top.
So, we need to introduce the condition
here that validates that this
start is more than zero.
So, we don't trigger our observer.
Okay, now we can run the code.
So, let's get back to index.html and
let's render the items.
If we go now to the top,
we should be able to see that
elements will be moving to the top.
>> Evgenii: Nope [LAUGH] this
didn't work out, let's see.
>> Speaker 1: I think in the loop,
since we are moving
backwards through the list, let's see.
Line two of seven,
do you need to decrement i instead of.
>> Evgenii: That's true, good eye, [LAUGH]
>> Evgenii: That's
what I did one more time.
>> Evgenii: And it still doesn't work,
maybe we need to refresh the page, but
let's see the container state.
Okay, I feel like the top
observer actually works, but
it works in a slightly different way.
Let's go to debugger point one more time
>> Evgenii: Okay, and let's render things.
>> Evgenii: Okay, now we're going to
the loop to see if the target ID is right.
>> Evgenii: The target is top observer,
so we go inside.
>> Evgenii: I see, okay.
>> Evgenii: The start pointer is zero, so
we are not updating the start pointer.
>> Evgenii: Okay, so
first let's update the loop that cycle to
validate that entry.target.id
= bottom.observer.
To make sure that we don't fire
the callback when the id is top observer.
Now we need to validate that
the start position is updating.
Basically, when we do the bottom observer,
we need to make sure that we
update the start position here.
So here,
we need to increase the start by one.
And if we go back now,
probably this should work.
>> Evgenii: Okay.
>> Evgenii: And let's go back to the top.
Yay, it works.
Okay, now we implemented
the bottom virtualization, but
there is one less thing.
So when we scroll down, you see that
our scroll bar is increasing, but
when we scroll to the top,
it's actually decreasing.
So we need to handle the last case
where we keep our scroll bar somehow.
And it's just one line code change.
When we do the bottom observer,
let's access the container,
>> Evgenii: getContainer and
when we scroll down, let's set the style,
the height of the container for
the CSS to be equal to a scroll height.
So we use the scroll height property
that will give us the size of the scroll
bar and we're gonna use pixels, that's it.
So now every time we scroll
down we should see that our
container now has the height set.
So when we scroll to the top
we'll maintain our score bar.
We implemented
the virtualization from scratch.
>> Evgenii: And this is me not,
>> Speaker 1: [LAUGH]
>> Evgenii: [LAUGHl ] trying not to
make a mistake in a coat [LAUGH].